What about some highlights or some insights,
observations, or something that stands out as
biggies during your time here? One thing that
would stand out would be in the mid-70s.
We, Teacher Education in Texas, have been
operating under the 1955 English for Teachers
certification. It's in 55. It works with no
change. Well, it's a modification. But
basically, the standards have been in place.
During the early 1970s, we went through this
competency-based JABS and different kinds of
things. And there was a lot of disagreement in the
state between the among institutions and so
forth. and they couldn't agree upon a set of
standards. And actually, it got to the point where
they said, okay, institution, you can choose from
75 standards or, I think, 74 standards or
whatever. Well, shortly after that, we went
through our accreditation period with UVA. Since
the early 70s, like about 72, we had half a semester
required. The 1955 standards said had to be a
minimum of six hours. That is, a half a day all
semester or all day for half a semester. Well, ours
has been virtually twice that.
The GEA comes in and tells us that we won't be
accredited because our student keeps, you know,
blew us away.
So we chose to go to the mat. And of course, if we
don't meet the minimums, where do you come off
telling us? Well, the TEA's interpretation of
that was that the attorney general said that you
must have a minimum program.
And so there was a whole series of letters that went
back and forth from Dean Hubert to Commissioner
Edgar and other parties. And finally, my
perception is that TDA, rather than put
themselves up for encouraging minimum
standards, plus rather than fight Texas A&M, they
just chose to ignore it. And so the next time that
they came for a accreditation visit, they didn't
even look at that. So they didn't have to write up .
Now, as an aside, there's no question that Dr.
Huber's personal relationship with J.W. Edgar,
I'll try to write that up, but J.W. Edgar and Dean
Huber went back 100 years. So that was Alton Bowen.
Alton Bowen became Commissioner of Education
after J.W. Edgar. Well, as it so happened, Alton
Bowen went to the Commissioner's office the
superintendency at the Mahea schools. Prior to
Mahea, he had been the superintendent. No, he went
from there. Anyway, early on, early 70s, Alton
Boyd was superintendent of the schools for Brian.
You know, the cronies in public education during
the 60s and the 70s, in the real behind-the-scenes
movers and shakers, You look at . And then you had
another guy over at UT who, early on in the 50s and
60s, was Professor of UT. OK, now one of the things
that I haven't touched on, I keep forgetting to ask
some of the people, but two or three have mentioned
it, is the role of the development council. And I
know you work very, very closely with the council
in establishing some of the programs. you know,
that you feel, you know, was the, and again, you
know, forgetting the development council, but
the way that, well, I'm not saying this is your
honor, but really, has that had any kind of an
impact on the? Oh, absolutely. Okay. Absolutely.
If you look at six years ago in college of
education, we virtually had no funding for
scholarships at the undergraduate level. Okay.
that were dollars controlled by the College of
Education. Our kids could compete at the
university level with university-wide
scholarships, but we had no undergraduate
dollars available. Just in those six short years,
primarily through the Development Council, we
have over a million dollars that are available to
kids in scholarships now, directly to College of
Education kids. To me, and obviously, since I
focus on undergraduate efforts, that has been a
major accomplishment that we could not have done
without the . It's Friday the 13th. Do you have a
crystal ball that might tell you where you're
going to be on Friday the 13th of the 21st century
sometime? Where do you see the future for this
college at this point from where you're sitting? I
think that depends on where education is in the
state. I see some major, I see the potential for a
major conflict between policy makers at the state
level, here I'm talking about the state board, the
coordinating board, potential legislators,
major potential conflict between perception of
what is and what is not right with education and old
and other profession in meeting those needs, how
those perceived needs should be addressed. The
realization of education really bothers me
because We could very easily, in fact, we're
almost at that point, close to the point of, as a
profession, losing any kind of control or input as
to what, you know, I think a lot of it is based on
education is one of our societal institutions
that everybody has been through, everybody has
experienced.
there is not only a tendency, but there is little
effort to learn about or to acquire or to believe in
the social science research
and education research as a basis for
policymaking.
This is because it's not directly cause and effect
kind
of stuff. And you cannot quantify it in such a way
that lends itself to those kinds of things. I think
the ability or the lack or the willingness of the
professional education community to get
involved in politics. And I've got a theory on
this, but that's outside what you're doing. Well,
I think I know what you're saying about it, too.
Kind of an apathetic type, you know, you can't do
anything other than... Well, that, and I think
teachers as a general rule, educators as a general
rule, that if, and this is stereotypical, but I
think educators as a general rule, one of the
reasons that they go into education, because of
their personality makeup as such, that they're
not the hard-driving, competitive, beat the
other guy, win this business deal kind of folks.
They're more the socially-oriented, health,
consciousness kind of thing. And because of that,
are not comfortable, whether they go through any
kind of a program or any kind of experiential deal,
that makes them politically sensitive, they get
into their classroom, which is a very isolated
environment, and time marches by, and as early on,
when maybe they still have a little bit of idealism
or what have you, they'll buck the system a little
bit or push on the issue or what have you, and they
get slapped down. They get slapped down from the
administrators because the administrators were
in the same boat that they were before. That's what
happened to them. They don't know how to deal with
somebody who has got some new ideas or some
creative things. They want to line all these
things up because whenever you increase a
person's degrees of freedom, then that means your
management task is more difficult. See, what you
want to do is control them. You want to pack them in
little boxes and keep them in those boxes. And that
is a reinforcing kind of thing because when you're
dealing with kids, you have to do that because
degrees of freedom have to be related to level of
maturity. And so while your teachers and your
administrators are suffering from the
environment in which they find themselves, So
none of this works together. It works against
teachers and administrators being politically
active. Is it as much in the higher education? I
mean, how high is it different between higher ed
and the special ed? The mindset's totally
different. Totally different. Because in higher
education,
in a major institution like this, it has to be
different. In fact, you have to encourage
creativity. You have to encourage differences.
And I have seen a lot of people come and go, your
folks who've been in business or military who
those degrees of freedom and don't know how to
manage action of individual faculty who have
their own agenda and who should have their own
agenda. But how do you get the department to move
collectively in this direction when you've got
all these folks doing all this? It's a very
delicate task. But as soon as you change that
assumption that my job as administrator is to line
everybody up and march them down the road, you've
lost it. or department, or whatever, is on the
decline. Exactly. One of the reasons I picked up on
one of the papers I wrote looking at this
organization was, are the people in the
organization more loyal, are more people tending
to be more loyal to the profession or to this
organization? Or maybe fashion add to
themselves. That is the old classic argument. I
refer you to AMA Journal, something 1955.
Anyway, the argument is the terminology is
cosmopolitan versus local. Cosmopolitan is that
faculty person who puts his or her discipline
before the institution. And there's never been
any? Oh, it's a continuing part. And A&M is
probably, as a whole, the college to some degree,
and it goes back to that first issue you were
talking about, recognizing that you need both
kinds of folks. And you can't do all of what a
college or a university needs to do with all kinds
of politics, because then you have no commonality
of values to drive an institution. if you have all
locals then you have no you know you have little
creativity you have little folks looking at
things all together differently so again there's
that balance in there and that's all part of the
culture oh absolutely absolutely it's a classic
study in there what about the climate i mean has it
changed does it affect is every floor on this
building you know each have its own total, because
it's part of the big culture, but do they have just a
total different climate? Oh, absolutely. It's
just like every class you have is different. You
can ask this question. I'm not sure how I'd want you
to write it, but I'll pick this up. The leadership
styles between Hoover and Corrigan, it's
actually 180 degrees.
I've heard lots of different Autocratic,
dictatorial, that I've heard every one of them.
There was a dictatorial perception, but I never
saw him. It was a
needed autocraticness. Because I go back to, we
were in that dramatic period of growth. And when
you're in that kind of a mode, you've got to
maintain a little bit closer handle on things. in
order to have some continuity, in order to pull
things together. But yet, I keep hearing, too, a
lot of the humanistic. Oh, absolutely. And a lot of
that. And that's interesting to see how everybody
perceives that. I'll never forget. I was in there
working one day, and he walks in. He has this box. He
says, Brian, I thought Keith would like this. He's
got a clean building. It's a rock tumbler. It's all
the different powders and everything for that.
Those kinds of things. He walks in another day. I'm
hearing a lot of that. He said, I just read these,
and I thought you would love to have them. Oh,
that's Vandiver's? Yeah, these are Vandiver's
books. This was before Vandiver was here. Yeah.
getting that little note. See, I'm seeing and
hearing a lot of this. And it's a side that maybe
some people that didn't know him intimately would
not have known. They would have picked up only on
this, you know, the strength and so forth. Well,
and things like when J.W. Edgar retired, I hear
that the man was brave. When J.W. Edgar retired,
retired as commissioner of education in 50 some
odd years of service to the state of Texas. Hubert
goes over to JW's farm somewhere outside of
Austin. And there's an old dilapidated, no, it
goes to his home place where he was born. And he goes
off from the old home place, apparently
dilapidated, just pretty well run down. The wood
whitens and takes some planks from that, has a
frame, has a picture of the old home place drawn up,
frames the picture in those pieces of wood from his
old four-year-old home place. We had a
person from New Mexico who was one of the greatest
turquoise artists in the world. Dean brings him in
as a part of Joanne Moore's classes in industrial
arts, jewelry making and so forth. Makes a big deal
of it and so forth. And as this guy's gift, The dean
has gone out and found some different kinds of corn
seeds. Now, one would think that might be
stereotypical or ethnic-related or whatever,
but rather it demonstrated a sensitivity to how
this person would appreciate that. And I saw that
kind of thing time and time and time again. And I'm
hearing a lot of that. And also by contrast, you
know, and because you have said that the English
and South are so different, I have even heard some
extremes, you know, and of course, this Dean's
high visibility and his reputation nationwide
and what it's done for the college and all, a lot of
people have alluded to that. But also on him, some
of the loosely coupled or the looseness of it. You
want to quote? I've even heard sloppy. You want to
quote? Yeah. I
hadn't heard it that way. Okay. And what that means
is...
Whose quote is that? It's the dean's. Oh, okay.
Of himself? Well, I think so, of his leadership
style. Okay. I would want you to use that. That's my
perception. No, no. This is just to get a framework
of everything is what I need all of this for. In
terms of letting the faculty do what they want to
do. He's not a believer of telling people what to
do. In order for it to happen, it's got to come up
from the bottom. He's very much a bottom-up. He's
not a top-down. Hubert was a top-down guy. But
within that, There was latitude for bottom-up.
Okay. And that's it? About the decision-making,
I'm hearing also that you have a big
responsibility in college for a lot of the
decision-making. Is that accurate? Well, it's an
issue. Okay. And it takes my recommendation.
There are lots of times it doesn't take my
recommendation. I want Chris or David or me or the
department to be yes people. And I want a degree
with him because he's a human. You can. And, you
know, I look at my role as having responsibility
and telling him what I think is right and why. And
sometimes he agrees with it, and sometimes he
doesn't. Yeah, I've been fortunate to see a lot of
things that I think would be good. Is there one
little final anecdote or observation or
something that was, you know, a little short for
the thing that you can think back on as being a
puppy? Well, I think one thing, it had to be more of a
today is, to
the major contributing factors to where
education is today as opposed to where it was 15,
17, 18. It's the kinds of kids we had every day they
were yesterday, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
It's just been the benefit of Texas A&M in general
in that regard because there's all kinds of
research called needs-impressed research. to
college climate and that kids tend to choose that
kind of institution if they proceed and choose
baggage police and that kind of thing.
Everybody's very reluctant to answer this
question, but do you feel, I hope you're going to be
here forever and ever, but if you ever leave here,
what would you like to be remembered by? What do you
think has been your biggest contribution?
Everybody wants somebody else to talk about it,
and people have it, and I have gotten it from
different people. I would like to think that there
were a lot
of, excuse me, Barbara. Like who? Barbara. Oh,
okay. Who graduated last May, after six years,
seven years. I could
think I have a hand in helping the Baylor College of
Medicine. Drop by at graduation time or drop me a
little note or come by. There's many that might not
take the time to do that, but you know you touched
them. That's why I think about teaching. You never
really see it. That's why I'm here. That's what I'd
like to do. There are kids out there that are more
than they thought they could be because, you know,
understanding their situations and didn't just
shut them out. Well, I thank you very, very much for
your interview and a long time at the end of the day
on Friday the 13th. I really appreciate it, and I
hope you'll let me come back.